Redline eval run, started 2026-09-13T02:10:34.597Z.
A model id was read from OPENROUTER_MODEL. It is not printed and not recorded.
Replies already on disk from an earlier pass are reused, so an interrupted pass resumes. Pass --fresh to call for every one.

WHAT BLOCKS THE RUN, AND WHAT ONLY INFORMS IT
---------------------------------------------
  Blocking   Citation integrity: every flag and every answer shows a sentence that is in
             the document, character for character. PRD.md section 4 makes this pass or
             fail with no threshold.
  Blocking   Ranking: arbitration outranks a merely unusual clause, in every reading that
             has both. A specified behaviour, so a failure is a defect.
  Blocking   An answer to a question the document cannot answer. PRD.md puts one in the
             same class as a missing citation. The count blocks; the percentage informs.
  Informs    Recall per clause type and per evidence group.
  Informs    Precision at the top severity band, which is a proxy here, not the figure.
  Informs    The clean-document reading on a benign document.
  Informs    The rate at which a flag was dropped for a sentence not in the document.
  Informs    Grounded questions answered, and which sentence was cited.

  The proposed thresholds in PRD.md section 4 are uncalibrated and nothing here is
  measured against them. Reading a number below as a pass or a failure is the mistake
  this section exists to prevent.

THE CORPUS: REDLINE-V1 V1
-------------------------
  Nine documents with a known clause inventory per document, used by npm run eval. Two came from tests/fixtures and the other seven were written for this suite. None was collected from the world. See README.md in this directory before reading a number off a run.

  document                      characters  planted  provenance
  adhesion-contract             9713        9        written-for-the-deterministic-suite
  clean-document                3992        benign   written-for-the-deterministic-suite
  saas-subscription             6098        8        written-for-this-suite
  offer-letter                  4731        5        written-for-this-suite
  storage-unit-rental           4320        6        written-for-this-suite
  phone-plan-terms              4844        7        written-for-this-suite
  internship-agreement          3542        5        written-for-this-suite
  library-volunteer-agreement   2879        benign   written-for-this-suite
  swim-lesson-registration      3011        benign   written-for-this-suite

  Instances per clause type, which is what every recall figure divides by:
    arbitration-and-class-action-waiver   5   regulator-evidenced
    unilateral-modification               6   weaker-evidence
    non-compete                           4   regulator-evidenced  too thin for the figure to mean much
    auto-renewal                          6   regulator-evidenced
    limitation-of-liability               4   weaker-evidence  too thin for the figure to mean much
    indemnification                       6   weaker-evidence
    fee-escalators-and-late-fees          9   regulator-evidenced

READING THE CORPUS
------------------
  adhesion-contract             8 flags, 1 dropped, completeness whole
                                18 questions asked, 11 refused
  clean-document                0 flags, 0 dropped, completeness whole
  saas-subscription             7 flags, 1 dropped, completeness whole
    waiting 2s after rate-limited on attempt 1
    waiting 7s after rate-limited on attempt 2
    waiting 14s after rate-limited on attempt 3
    waiting 19s after rate-limited on attempt 4
    waiting 40s after rate-limited on attempt 5
    waiting 57s after rate-limited on attempt 6
    waiting 68s after rate-limited on attempt 7
                                8 questions asked, 5 refused
  offer-letter                  5 flags, 0 dropped, completeness whole
  storage-unit-rental           6 flags, 0 dropped, completeness whole
  phone-plan-terms              7 flags, 0 dropped, completeness whole
  internship-agreement          6 flags, 0 dropped, completeness whole
  library-volunteer-agreement   0 flags, 0 dropped, completeness whole
  swim-lesson-registration      0 flags, 0 dropped, completeness whole

RECALL PER CLAUSE TYPE
----------------------
  The matching rule, which is the measurement:
    strict   the flag names the planted clause's type and its verified sentence overlaps
             the planted sentence in the document. This is the primary figure.
    by type  the document produced any flag of that type, wherever it was cited. Looser,
             and the gap between the two is where the model found the right category and
             the wrong clause.
    The third column counts planted clauses whose sentence a flag did quote, under some
    other type. Those flags read the right words and named the wrong thing.

  clause type                           evidence            strict              by type             wrong type
  arbitration-and-class-action-waiver   regulator-evidenced 5/5 100.0%          5/5 100.0%          0
  unilateral-modification               weaker-evidence     6/6 100.0%          6/6 100.0%          0
  non-compete                           regulator-evidenced 3/4 75.0%           4/4 100.0%          0
  auto-renewal                          regulator-evidenced 6/6 100.0%          6/6 100.0%          0
  limitation-of-liability               weaker-evidence     3/4 75.0%           3/4 75.0%           0
  indemnification                       weaker-evidence     6/6 100.0%          6/6 100.0%          0
  fee-escalators-and-late-fees          regulator-evidenced 6/9 66.7%           9/9 100.0%          2

RECALL BY EVIDENCE GROUP
------------------------
  PRD.md section 4 proposes 95 percent on the four regulator-evidenced types and 80 on
  the other three. Both figures are uncalibrated and neither is applied here.

  regulator-evidenced
    types:    arbitration-and-class-action-waiver, non-compete, auto-renewal, fee-escalators-and-late-fees
    strict:   20/24  83.3%
    by type:  24/24  100.0%
  weaker-evidence
    types:    unilateral-modification, limitation-of-liability, indemnification
    strict:   15/16  93.8%
    by type:  15/16  93.8%

RECALL SPLIT BY THE CHARACTERS IN THE SENTENCE
----------------------------------------------
  Ticket 10's run dropped the same flag on every attempt, on a sentence carrying an em
  dash, a curly apostrophe and a non-breaking space: the model retyped those characters
  rather than copying them, so the span did not verify and the flag never left the seam.
  This split says whether that is the whole story or a part of it.

  sentences carrying at-risk characters:  7/10  70.0%
  sentences carrying none:                28/30  93.3%
  Missed, with the characters each sentence carries:
    adhesion-contract#P-05                  em-dash, curly-apostrophe, non-breaking-space
    saas-subscription#P-01                  non-breaking-space
    phone-plan-terms#P-01                   ligature

PRECISION AT THE TOP SEVERITY BAND (CRITICAL)
---------------------------------------------
  PRD.md section 4 asks what fraction of top-band flags survive review by a person
  reading the source sentence. Nobody is reading in a run, so this is the proxy the
  ticket names and not the measurement. The flags are printed below so the owner can do
  the real review by reading them.

  Flags at the top band:                            15
  Of those, found a planted clause banded critical:  14
  Found a planted clause the corpus banded lower:    0
  Found nothing planted at all:                      1
  Proxy precision:                                   93.3%
  Against any planted clause, at either band:        93.3%

  Flags that found no planted clause anywhere in the corpus: 4
  Flags beyond the first to find the same planted clause:    0

EVERY TOP-BAND FLAG, WITH ITS SOURCE SENTENCE
---------------------------------------------
  Read these. This is the human half of precision at high severity, and it is the half a
  run cannot do.

  adhesion-contract F-02  Unilateral modification
    found: adhesion-contract#P-04
    "Meridian may amend the Club Rules, the Schedule of Fees, the hours of operation, the class
    timetable and the terms of this Agreement at any time by posting the amended version at the
    club or on the Meridian website, and the amended version applies to you from the date it is
    posted."

  adhesion-contract F-03  Non-compete and restrictive covenants
    found: adhesion-contract#P-08
    "For twelve (12) months after your Program candidacy ends for any reason, you will not
    teach, coach or deliver group ﬁtness instruction or personal training, whether as an
    employee, as a contractor or on your own account, at any facility within ﬁfteen (15) miles
    of a Meridian location at which you taught or trained."

  adhesion-contract F-01  Arbitration and class-action waiver
    found: adhesion-contract#P-09
    "Any dispute, claim or controversy between you and Meridian arising out of or relating to
    this Agreement, your membership or the Program will be resolved by ﬁnal and binding
    arbitration administered by a nationally recognised arbitration provider under its consumer
    arbitration rules, and you and Meridian each waive any right to a trial by jury and any
    right to bring or participate in a class, collective or representative action."

  saas-subscription F-02  Unilateral modification
    found: saas-subscription#P-05
    "We may amend these terms, the pricing page and the Fee Schedule at any time, an amended
    version takes effect when we post it at northwindstudio.example/terms, and your continued
    use of the service after it is posted is your acceptance of the amended version."

  saas-subscription F-01  Arbitration and class-action waiver
    found: saas-subscription#P-08
    "Any dispute between you and Northwind arising out of these terms or out of your use of the
    service will be settled by binding arbitration before a single arbitrator under the consumer
    rules of a recognised arbitration body, and you agree to bring any claim only in your
    individual capacity and not as a plaintiff or class member in any purported class,
    collective or representative proceeding."

  offer-letter F-01  Unilateral modification
    found: offer-letter#P-01
    "Ardent may introduce, withdraw, interpret or amend any policy, handbook provision, benefit
    plan or term of employment described in this letter at any time and without your agreement,
    and the version in force on the Ardent intranet governs from the date it is published
    there."

  offer-letter F-02  Non-compete and restrictive covenants
    found: offer-letter#P-02
    "For a period of twelve (12) months following the last day of your employment, whether that
    employment ends at your choice or at ours, you will not provide services that are the same
    as or substantially similar to those you provided to Ardent, whether as an employee, a
    consultant, a contractor, an adviser or a principal, to any business that develops,
    manufactures or sells a product within the Restricted Field as that term is defined in
    Exhibit B to this letter."

  offer-letter F-04  Arbitration and class-action waiver
    found: offer-letter#P-05
    "You and Ardent each agree that any claim arising out of or relating to your employment, its
    terms, or its end, including any statutory claim, will be resolved by final and binding
    arbitration administered under the employment rules of a nationally recognised arbitration
    provider, on an individual basis only, and each of us waives any right to a jury trial and
    any right to participate in a class, collective or representative action."

  storage-unit-rental F-03  Unilateral modification
    found: storage-unit-rental#P-06
    "Gate hours, the rules posted in the office, and the terms of this Agreement may be changed
    by the Operator on notice posted at the facility and sent to the Occupant's last known email
    address, and the changed version applies to the Occupant from the first day of the month
    after it is posted."

  phone-plan-terms F-03  Non-compete and restrictive covenants
    found: no planted clause of this type at this sentence
    "Cascade may introduce, increase or remove either charge on notice given with the bill in
    which the change ﬁrst appears."

  phone-plan-terms F-02  Unilateral modification
    found: phone-plan-terms#P-04
    "Cascade may change any term of this Agreement, any charge, and any feature of your rate
    plan, and the change takes effect on the date stated in the notice we give you, which may be
    given on a bill, by message to your device, or by email."

  phone-plan-terms F-01  Arbitration and class-action waiver
    found: phone-plan-terms#P-07
    "You and Cascade agree that any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the
    service or any device will be resolved by individual binding arbitration administered by a
    nationally recognised arbitration provider under its consumer rules, and both of us give up
    the right to a jury trial and the right to bring or join a class, collective or
    representative action."

  internship-agreement F-02  Unilateral modification
    found: internship-agreement#P-02
    "The Firm may amend the Programme Handbook, the assessment structure, the teaching schedule
    and the terms of this Agreement at any time by issuing a revised version to the Analyst by
    email, and the revised version applies from the date of that email."

  internship-agreement F-03  Non-compete and restrictive covenants
    found: internship-agreement#P-03
    "For six (6) months after the Programme ends, the Analyst will not accept an engagement,
    whether paid or unpaid and whether as an employee, a contractor or an intern, with any firm
    on the Restricted List issued to the Analyst in week one of the Programme, and will not
    approach any client of the Firm whose file the Analyst worked on."

  internship-agreement F-01  Arbitration and class-action waiver
    found: internship-agreement#P-05
    "Any dispute between the Analyst and the Firm arising out of the Programme or out of this
    Agreement will be resolved by final and binding arbitration on an individual basis,
    administered under the employment rules of a nationally recognised provider, and the Analyst
    gives up any right to a jury trial and any right to bring or join a class or collective
    action."

CLEAN DOCUMENTS
---------------
  PRD.md section 4: against a benign corpus the system reports a clean document with the
  list of what was checked, and no flag at the top band. A tool that manufactured a
  finding to look useful has failed this even though nothing it said was false.

  clean-document                0 flags, 0 at the top band, clean reading: true
  library-volunteer-agreement   0 flags, 0 at the top band, clean reading: true
  swim-lesson-registration      0 flags, 0 at the top band, clean reading: true

RANKING: ARBITRATION OUTRANKS A MERELY UNUSUAL CLAUSE
-----------------------------------------------------
  adhesion-contract             held. Arbitration is rank 3, above 5 flag(s) below the top band.
  clean-document                nothing to compare: no arbitration flag in this reading
  saas-subscription             held. Arbitration is rank 2, above 5 flag(s) below the top band.
  offer-letter                  held. Arbitration is rank 3, above 2 flag(s) below the top band.
  storage-unit-rental           nothing to compare: no arbitration flag in this reading
  phone-plan-terms              held. Arbitration is rank 3, above 4 flag(s) below the top band.
  internship-agreement          held. Arbitration is rank 3, above 3 flag(s) below the top band.
  library-volunteer-agreement   nothing to compare: no arbitration flag in this reading
  swim-lesson-registration      nothing to compare: no arbitration flag in this reading

THE QUESTION BOX
----------------
  Both halves are counted. A product that refused every question would score 100 percent
  refusal and be worth nothing, so the refusal figure means nothing without the answered
  figure beside it.

  Questions the document answers:      9/13 answered  69.2%, 3 refused, 1 failed
  Of those answers, cited the sentence the corpus names: 8/9
    A different sentence is not automatically a wrong answer. The ticket 10 run found the
    model citing a sentence that answered the question better than the one the sidecar
    names, which is why this is reported and why recall is not matched on it.

  Questions the document cannot answer: 13/13 refused  100.0%, 0 answered, 0 failed

  Questions the document answers and the run did not answer:
    adhesion-contract  refused (the-document-does-not-address-it)
      What happens if my payment bounces and I am two weeks late?
    adhesion-contract  refused (the-sentence-is-not-in-the-document)
      If I get hurt because a machine was broken, what is the most I could get back from them?
    adhesion-contract  refused (the-document-does-not-address-it)
      If a friend I sign in as a guest sues the club, does that land on me?
    adhesion-contract  failed (model-response-rejected)
      Is there any way to keep my right to sue?

CITATION INTEGRITY
------------------
  Every quote a reader would see, held against the document it came from.

  Flags the model claimed across the corpus:        41
  Flags that survived verification:                 39
  Flags dropped, the span is not in the document:   2
  Drop rate:                                        4.9%
  Exits dropped, the span is not in the document:   1

  A drop is the rule working, not a failure of the run: the model named a sentence the
  document does not contain and the flag never left the seam. What would be a failure is
  a quote reaching a reader that cannot be shown, which is the count below.

  Quotes that do not appear in their document: 0. Checked 39 flags and every answer.

WHAT THIS PASS COST
-------------------
  Calls the pass asked for:        35
  Answered from disk:              0
  Attempts made over the wire:     42
  Calls that ran out of attempts:  0
  Faults, by what went wrong:
    rate-limited            7

VERDICT
-------
  Every blocking check held.

  The numbers above are measurements. None of them decides this verdict, and the
  proposed figures in PRD.md section 4 still need calibrating against a real corpus.

  Recorded at eval-runs/2026-09-13T02-10-34-597Z.json and eval-runs/2026-09-13T02-10-34-597Z.txt
